Now we are going to discuss another concept called generators.
So this topic will have fire related questions.
Generators can help you to pause and resume the call.
That is the simple definition of generator functions.
Let's get clear with the generators in the most simplified way.
Normally when you write a function, it returns a single value.
You can think of generators as a kind of function which can return multiple values in phases.
Enough of definition.
Let's try practically the function.
Star is the keyword used to define a generator function.
Yield is an operator which pauses the generator.
Yield also helps to receive input and send output, but that is the next phase.
At the moment, let's use function, asterisk, keyword and yield operator to get the idea of basic
functionality of generator function.
So let's define a generator function.
I'll say concert for example, DJ and function that is generator function as a function.
This is absolutely fine.
Now, the difference is you put a star here.
Sometimes we will see that people get confused with putting this star.
Some people write like this or like this.
All the ways are correct.
But most of the commonly used way with generator functions is that we use the star along with the function,
and then we put a space.
But even if you do not have a space right, then also it's fine.
And if you have this star with this bracket, that's also not a problem.
I'm just writing a statement here saying console.log.
Let's say I want to display.
Hello.
Then I just write yield the moment you write this yield operator.
It means this is where the function will pause.
I'll explain you with some illustration, but let's proceed for that.
Another statement I want is hello.
Then the world statement again.
I just want to have the yield operator.
And next, I'll put a cancel log alert.
One more statement and let's say Galaxy.
Now, how am I going to call the function?
I will create an object.
Let's a generator object is equal to.
I'm calling the generator function.
Now, if you see this line number eight, when a generator function is called, it does not call the
function.
Instead, it returns a generator object.
So the object here you see will receive the generator object.
Let's try to display the value of it.
I'll say console.log.
The generator object value I want to see.
I run the correlation node generator dot Jess.
So you can imagine that you are still here.
Now, that is another matter.
Our next method, which will start the execution and will continue till the yield.
Operator When it reaches to the yield operator, that's where it is going to stop.
Let's try to put a next statement now and remove this console.log as it is not needed.
I said go bigger dart next.
Let's run this.
So it has executed the full statement.
And then when it found the yield operator, it stopped the execution.
The next method actually returns an object which has two keys which we have already seen with the iterator.
The first is value and the other is boolean, which shows the next status.
Let's try to print value off.
Next method.
Either I take the value in some variable.
I can see some object.
I mean const or is equal to.
We want to check what the next returns.
So I'll say console.log.
The value of all.
Let's run the code.
So Halo is executed.
And then when it found a yield operator, it stopped and it returned to the object.
Like this value and the status done as you see that the value is undefined.
The reason is, at the moment I have not returned any value with yield, which you can by giving a value
along with the yield.
Say, for example, I just want to try yield value.
It might be any value which you are returning.
So yield itself is capable of returning any value.
Let's try this.
I'll save.
Run it.
Now, as you can see here, the value says that it is yield value, which was undefined earlier and
the status is still false.
Now, if you want to execute this entire function because there are two yield operators return here,
so we'll have to write multiple next methods.
Let's do that again.
I'll say g object dart next.
I want to move to the next to yield even.
What we can do here is we can directly console.log.
And also move to the next yield.
So we do not need to write more lines here now.
So this will also move to the next yield and will also display the return the value of the next method.
Call.
Let me write three times here.
Or even four times.
Now let's run the call.
The first hello is executed here.
Then comes the return value by this next method.
Again, we write the next, so it's going to move further when it goes on.
Third next it is going to execute this and galaxy.
And for the last next I've just added for the sake of adding it just to show that there is no value
getting returned for the last.
Next, let me remove this.
Now, again, we tried the same code.
So this is the output.
Inside this generator function, we are moving step by step with the next method.
Now this next method we have already seen in the iterator section, it means generators are iterable
as well.
So instead of writing this next what we can do, which is a more preferred way, we are going to put
an iterator here.
And I say after that I'm going to put a far off loop elsaffar.
Let's select all of geo BDA, which is the generator object.
Now, here, I'll simply try to display the value of all.
Let's run the call.
Now you see that instead of writing the next method multiple times, you put the loop that is far off
loop and you can iterate through the entire generator function.
Isn't it fantastic?
And because here you see that generator functions, are it rebels?
You can use the spread operator with it as well.
So instead of writing like this, say, for example, when I do not want the follow up and you want
the results inside an addy.
What you can do is you can directly display the value of this generator object, which will not be a
generator object.
Later on, when I put this inside of the addy.
So whatever the generator function is going to return because it is it rebel.
You can use the spread operator with it.
So this will actually create an array with return values.
All returned values by this generator function will be assigned to this object.
So now this is a kind of addy.
So let's try this out.
So I'll clear the screen first and run the code again.
So now you see that this entire geo BGA contains the values which the generator function was returning
in the iterator section.
We tried a core sample to iterate through an object.
Literal generator works best with it readers.
This was the code we tried with iterator where we created a matter with symbol iterator key and we returned
the iterator object to iterate through a non-trivial data structure.
The same code we can convert with generators and that will be even easier.
So like this object we have start and end.
Of course this system iterator is needed, but we are going to convert this into a generator function
and that's it.
This actually converts this entire system iterator method as a triple because now it is a generator
function.
So what I can do, I do not need all these ideas and anything like this.
You and I do not need to return this object as well.
Instead of this, you can simply put a far loop here and let's say let counter is equal to this dot
start number.
The counter should go till end and the counter will be incremented by one.
The next thing you need is that you are going to yield the counter.
That's it.
So now you can compare the code which we wrote like this for Iterator, and now we have this code where
it is going to iterate through this non-trivial data structure.
Let's try this and see what is the output.
The loop will remain as it is.
So now you can see that this thing is a rebel just with the help of generator functions.
In fact, to make this syntax easier, you can certainly remove this function keyword and this star
you can put before the symbol iterator and you can follow the E-6 syntax.
That's also fine.
This is even better.
Let me say in rerun, just to check whether everything is working fine or not.
And here also, instead of writing the follow you can use.
Let's say you have the object.
This is the object which we have made it terrible.
Now see the most amazing thing here.
I'll directly say console.log.
Dot, dot, dot, spread.
Operator, I'm using object.
That's it.
So this is an ad where you have the entire list of values.
So now we know that generators are really working well with traders because generators are iterable
as well.
The yield operator, which we are using, is something we can use only in generator functions.
When it comes to recursive function or even calling one generator function from another.
There is a specific syntax that is by using yield and asterisk.
Like this.
Let's try a code sample.
I will create a generator function as a function start generator.
Right now I'm putting just a statement here saying that.
Hi.
Now I am creating another generator, let's say function star generator one.
Ideally, when you have to call this generator, that is this one you will use gone.
Let's say the generator object is equal to the function name is generator.
Then you'll see g dot next.
So you are actually calling the generator function because we know that if it is a generator function,
we need to move the function pointer using the next method.
Now if you call this generator, one that is also given is equal to generator one and given next.
Now, if you look at the architecture of this code, we have two generator functions here and the generator,
one is actually calling the generator function here.
Let's run the code first.
I'll send Node.
Generator Dot.
So here this line is executed.
In case if you want to call this function directly, then you have another syntax as well.
That is, you can use the yield function and you put an asterisk here.
Then you say n this will help you to call that generator function.
As you can see that the function is executed.
If you had to write the yield outside any generator function, it is not allowed because yield is something
which you have to put inside a generator function.
But here this situation can be very well handled with yield asterisk and then you give the generator
function in case if you have a recursive function.
Now let me just show you one simple syntax of recursive function.
Let's say I have a function called factorial.
Now what is a recursive function?
A recursive function is that you may have some if condition here and then you may want to write some
exit statement that is to terminate the execution and here you will call the factorial function.
So right now what we are doing is that we are referring we are calling the factorial function from the
function itself.
It's a kind of endless execution unless you put the if in a proper way.
So this is a recursion now in this case.
Also, if you want to call, let's see, this is a generator function.
Assume that this is a generator function, then you can use the yield and star of course in that case
also you need to have proper conditions to come out of the execution.
So in case if you want to call the generator function from another one or you are implementing recursion
with generator functions, then you can use the yield and asterisk syntax.
The generator object has next matter which we have already seen, which returns object like this.
It also has two other methods return method and true method.
Return method is more or less similar to the next method, but it returns the object like this where
you have the value and done will always be true and it terminates the generator.
So return matter is used to terminate the generator.
Here, let's try this.
I'll create one generator function.
Sorry I missed the generator.
That is the asterisk.
Now, let's say yield.
I'll return straightaway.
One.
And another yield.
And say to.
Now I'll create the gender object.
Let's try this console.log generator object.
Not next at the moment.
I'll try with next method only.
So I'll write the next method three times.
Let me do that.
And we are straightaway displaying the return to value by the next method.
Let's run this.
Now you see that for the first two next methods, because we have already seen the execution, that
once you start, once you write this statement, the binder is here.
When you say the next matter, it moves to the next value.
So this is executed because yield is something which pauses the execution, then the second next will
move to the next line.
The last next is going to say that now done is true and there is no value return because there is no
yield for this.
Next.
Now you see that the done true is displayed at the last next method call.
Let me just see written here.
I'll save this and run it again.
Now, if you compare the output here in the second call itself, it says that the value is undefined
and that is true.
It means that on the second call, because we have used the return method, it has terminated the generator.
Right.
And it has made this done is equal call to true.
So now there is no more further execution possible.
The same thing you find right here on the first line.
Let's set it on here and I'll put next here.
It doesn't matter whether I write next or not, but let's write it.
Now, as you can see all three times, that is no value returned by yield because the generator function
is terminated on the first call itself.
So if you have a situation where you have a condition and then you want to come out of the generator
function, you want to terminate the generator function.
You can write the return.
In fact, you can give a message also.
Next method also takes a parameter if you want.
Same way you can say that.
Let's say there was a condition satisfied and you wanted to come out of the generator.
I just say condition none or satisfied.
Whatever.
I'll just see if this.
So now you see the value is conditioned.
Done and done is true.
So this is how they're done is useful to deal with termination of generator function.
Now in this example, we have already seen that we can terminate the generator function using return.
You can also suspend the termination if you are using finally and you use the yield statement in it.
Let me show you practically.
Then you will have a clear understanding.
Let's say I have a try block here.
And the yield statements are placed inside this try here I'm going to use finally now I just use yield
and I will return finally here just to get the idea that this is actually returned by the final yield.
Now here I have this geometry.
I'll see g object next.
Let me also put a console.log here so that I get the output.
So the first is the next statement.
The second line I'm going to write is again, the next statement.
Let's run this and see what is the output.
So both the cases it sees done is equal to false.
Let me commend this deal at the moment.
And here I am going to write right on.
Let's try it again.
So now what happens?
First case that is equal to false.
The second case it is done is true.
The reason is we have to use the return statement which terminates the generator.
Now, if I just uncomment this line and if I run.
You see, the second one is not yet terminated.
The value is finally.
This shows that the yield statement of finally is executed and done.
Is still not true.
That means the suspension is executed.
When I wrote this yield in finally the return methods termination is suspended.
So this is another syntax which you can use sometimes when the termination is to be suspended.
The next method we are discussing is the true method.
That through method throws an exception at the location of yield, which made the last suspension in
the generator function.
It means that, for example, in this case, instead of writing, finally, I'll just put a catch here
and let's say added header object and instead of having a yield statement.
Now I'll say console.log and display the add on whatever the edit is.
So I'm going to join the error era.
That's it.
Now, instead of this return statement, I use just a true statement through matter that is which will
throw the at it.
And as you see that the first next did return this object.
But then because we have the throw right now see here return or through which I have shown this is just
an example or a syntax or how does it work?
That's what I'm discussing.
Right?
You have to go related with some practical situation.
We are also going to see a few situations where we'll be using it.
But at the same time, you have to understand that when I use the true statement, that means if there
is an error condition, I'm going to write true or maybe return.
But all these matters will be in a kind of if condition or in some situation only we are going to use
it.
Right?
So there will always be an if condition, maybe switch case where you see that if certain values are
or conditions are not satisfied or maybe satisfied, then you want to terminate or generate the error
as long as error is concerned.
Anyway, whenever there is an error generated by a try catch, which you generally use to handle the
JavaScript errors, that's where you can have the generator function object, not through method.
In this section we have just seen the syntax of generators and how generators are working with it returns
also as long as the practical implementation is concerned.
I would like to underline this that generator functions are rarely used in your JavaScript code, but
yes, there are situations where you have the asynchronous processes where it returns and generators
combined.
They can work well and do see how generators and integrators with asynchronous processes work.
You can check the asynchronous section that I have discussed asynchronous iterator and generators concept.
Let's discuss the related questions of this topic.
The first question is what are generator functions?
Explain the syntax.
So generator functions.
We have seen that they give you a way where you can pause a process and then whenever you want to continue
for that after some time.
Even then, it's possible.
The syntax is like this where we are using an asterisk with the function and we use the yield operator
to pause the execution and next method to proceed further.
The second question is which is the right syntax?
Function asterisk.
Then space or function, then space and asterisk.
See, we have already seen earlier in the beginning that we whether you write space after the star,
before the star, or even if you don't give us space in between, that is the function parentheses.
Start in brackets.
You do not give any space.
Doesn't matter, right?
All these indexes are valid.
But at the same time, I would just like to emphasize that function star space is the commonly used
syntax.
So we go with this way of writing the generator function.
The third question is explain all methods of generator object.
So the three matters which we have discussed, the next method which actually moves the function pointer
to the next line from the next, that is the last suspended yield.
It proceeds further.
Whereas the return allows you to terminate the function.
And the mattered, which can help you to raise an error with the generator object.
So these are the three methods related to the generator object.
The first question is explain the use of heeled star.
That is a yield asterisk.
So we have seen that it's about calling a generator function from another generator function.
Or even when you have to call a recursive generator function, then you have to use the yield star syntax.
The fifth question is, can you prevent the return from terminating the generator?
Yes, absolutely.
Of course, there should also be a conditional way to deal with this situation.
But when you see it are done, it terminates the execution.
But let's say if you write a yield statement in finally like this, then it will certainly prevent the
return from terminating the generator.